Now before we create our two top Lego piece I'd like to do a little bit of housekeeping here.
What I want to do is make sure that this block is resting on the grid here as if the grid is a floor
or a table top.
And I also want to take the origin of the object that you can see right here and place it right down
in the bottom center of the object and that will help us move and snap and stack the blocks.
So to move this up to the grid I want to go to one of my orthographic views I'm going to press the one
key on the numpad and there we go and then I'll press the five key to go to orthographic view.
And what I want to do is just drag this up and tell it sits right on the grid right there.
Now I'm gonna use the middle mouse button to tumble out of that and then I'll press the five key to
go back to perspective mode.
Now what I want to do is make sure that this 3-D cursor is in the center of the grid.
It looks like it is.
I want to press the Z key to go to wireframe.
Just take a look at it and you can see it there.
Well hit the Z key again.
But just to make sure that that 3-D cursor is in the center of the grid I'm going to press shift s and
I'm going to choose cursor to center from the snap menu here.
Now I'm sure that that cursor is in the center of the grid.
Now what I want to do is take that origin of this object and snap it to the 3D cursor.
So come over here under the Tools tab and click Set origin and change the origin to the 3D cursor.
And there we go.
All right so now that we have that taken care of let's take a look at creating one of these two tops.
So once again I'll go back to my template layer that I put way out here to keep it safe.
I'll select that and I'll press shift d to duplicate it.
Shift D and enter.
Now over here in the outliner you can see that duplicate is called template 0 0 1.
I'll change the name of that and call that two top and I'll move this I'll press the end key to bring
up the moved to layer menu and I'll move it to layer number 2 cents though one top is on the first layer.
Click that.
And now we go over to layer Number two there is our template.
So now what we need to do is create a duplicate of this.
Move it to one side and then connect the vertices up.
So it's all one object.
So here we go.
Let's press shift d to duplicate it and I'll press enter and then I want to slide this over so it's
right next to the original one.
Now I could try and move it over just right so they just overlap.
But I think an easier way is just for me to come in here to the X location and just type in two and
then we go since the scale of this plane is it 1 and its dimension is 2.
I can just type in a location of two and it a line that up exactly.
Now if I hit the tab key to go into edit mode I can either go into edit mode for this object or I can
go into edit mode for this object but I can't really do it for both at the same time and we need to
do that to be able to connect the vertices up.
So what we need to do is be able to join these objects again.
So to do that if you recall I'll select both of these and press control.
And that will join these two together into one object.
Now if I hit the tab key you can see they all go into edit mode.
So now what we can do is choose these vertices and merge them together but we won't actually use the
merge tool per say here let me show you what I mean.
If we I'm going to kind of line this up and I'll press can troll tab to go to the next select menu and
I'll choose Virtex.
And now we can see the vertices here and just select these border select them with the Beaky press the
key and then click and drag these right there to select all of those.
But did I really select all of those.
Let's go up to here and take a look at the vertices number.
There's 114 vertices in this object.
But look I only have five selected which means I didn't select all of them there should be 10 there.
So let me hit the A key again to de-select and this time I'm going to press the Z key to go into wireframe.
Now I'll press the be key to border select and border select all of these vertices again.
And now this time take a look at how many I got 10.
So my point is when your in solid mode and use something like the borders select tool the tool doesn't
select anything behind what's in the front.
So it only selects the vertices or the components in front and nothing in back of those to select overlapping
components you need to go into wireframe.
All right so now that I have all of those selected I can press control V for the vertex menu control
the.
And then I can come down here and choose remove doubles.
So if I click that look at what happened it says removed five vertices.
So now there are only five selected because there are only five there.
Now I hit Control V to bring up the vertex menu like this.
But you can also press control e to bring up the edges menu that has a lot of edge tools in it and you
can also press control f to bring up the faces menu.
So control the control E and control f bring up the menu and tools for those specific components.
Virtex edge and face.
All right.
So let's hit the Z key to go back to solid mode.
And now what we can do is move this object up the tab key to go to object mode.
And I'm just going to drag straight up until it's about where I think it should be.
I'll go with that.
For now let's try that.
I'll go ahead and type 2 into the Z-axis here.
Let's just go with that and see how that works.
And now if I tab into edit mode I'm going to hit the A key to de-select everything I'll hit control
tab to go to the select menu and I'll choose edges.
And this time I'll once again press alt and click to choose an edge shift alt and click to add another
one and the same all the way around and we go into extrude these edges down.
I'll just press e and then I'll click and I'll drag straight down down to the grid and you can see here
that I'm coming back down to the grid I'm a little over negative to go ahead and type in negative 2
there so I should hit the grid exactly now.
And then once again I'll come down here and hit extrude or click Presti Eski to scale and scale in a
bit and then off hit the click and drag straight up to finish off the bottom of the block there.
Now if I turn on the subdivisions surface modifier again right over here so we can see it you can see
that it's kind of gloppy it curves those edges way too much.
So what I'm going to do is turn that view off again and begin inserting some edge loops with control
are so control r and hover over an edge and click and then I'll drag it over here to where I want it
and click and same thing all the way around
and I'll add some horizontal edge loops.
In fact what I can do is scroll the mouse wheel 1 time to get to edge loops and click and click again
and then I'll switch to my scale tool here and just scale those up in the Z-axis.
So they move up to the top and bottom edges and like that and then I can insert a few down here as well
so control are same thing scroll the mouse wheel click and click again and maybe one down in here as
well.
All right.
So now if we go back to object mode with the tab key turn our subdivision surface modifier back on there
is are two top one the next video will take a look at creating one more type of Lego block and then
we'll work on stacking and arranging them and will even begin adding some basic colors to them.